my name is Mai Godsey I'm the GM at and
fira were a product inside of the
consensus family so very happy to be
here also thank you for having us you
know we have we've been committed to
ipfs for for almost four years now and
it is it's been such a core part of our
product and working with the protocol
labs team has always been such a
pleasure it's a really exciting - to
present this today so the presentation
today basically going to go through how
in fear got formed and and motivated us
to start working with ipfs talk a little
bit about what our offering is today and
then talk a little bit about where we're
going from here so if you're like I said
if your watch four years ago originally
as an etherium API provider for projects
inside of consensus so basically we saw
the problem with hosting aetherium
infrastructure and it becoming a blocker
for core developers trying to build an
experiences on top of the theory and so
we we decided to start hosting the
infrastructure and serving that over an
API to make it even easier to access
aetherium so that meant offering a
standard API that was exactly the same
as if you were right running your own
aetherium nodes this made it's super
easy for interoperability and just kind
of getting the infrastructure out of the
way of the developer so that they could
build really fast and really cool
experiences so this this proved to be
really a awesome thing for developers it
really showed its value very early on
and it has been growing and continuously
ever since that we we officially
launched at DEFCON 2 with metamath being
one of our first use cases early
adopters
and it was it was a really awesome
combination of here's your window into
experiencing this web 3 technology and
and and having the confidence that it's
running on infrastructure that that
really it was bulletproof so what so
listen you know this this really this
discovery this kind of led us to our
mission you know we started very early
on with this thesis of of if we can make
building on aetherium as easy as
possible then we can help push this new
era of the internet forward and and this
was and so this really became our core
mission statement of we want to deliver
the absolute best infrastructure and
developer tools for people to to build
web 3 applications and and and this
mission statement kind of led us to a
question of ok you know web 3 is broad
and an application requirements is
equally as broad and so it you know
etherium was great for computation great
for you know assets and and all of the
intricacies of smart contracts and as
this base settlement layer but that left
us asking a question of what what about
storage and and how can we create a
complete web 3 development suite without
a storage solution and then and this is
what this is really what led us to ipfs
so ipfs really kind of came in and
immediately started solving that problem
for for developers trying to build a
complete web 3 application decentralized
distributed application and and so in a
lot of ways you can look at it as the
the the analogy of s3 to ec2 so we we
really wanted to kind of
to meet this entire package so you could
go to one place and really have this
this the tools to build this distributed
application and so we set up one of the
very first gateway and API services and
and ever since then we've seen a ton of
developers using the service asking us
questions about it and always kind of
growing together around you know what
people need how they need to access it
what the issues with it are and kind of
exploring the the spectrum of use cases
with this awesome community so when we
launched this we decided that you know
this was going to be free just like our
aetherium API we thought that getting
developers to start building on this was
was the right first step and then moving
towards offering additional value on top
of that that developers were really
gonna want to you know spend money on
and so so this kind of takes me to where
are we now
so that was that's that was kind of the
past and and what led to to to us
starting in fira and our ipfs support
your theory and support and so so what
are we now is in a lot of ways we are a
robust API and Gateway for accessing IP
ffs so what does this mean for
developers developers can pin and access
their pin data directly via our API and
they can access any data across the
network directly via our gateway and our
API for that matter so right now it's a
it is a limited set of API functionality
so
you know things like delete are not
currently supported because it is fully
open authentication so this basically
meant that we since since the inception
of this feature and support it was super
important to us to maximize people's
ability to experiment on this technology
and so so we left it open authentication
to really Drive that experimentation and
and we've seen such cool use cases built
on top of it because of that and and and
researchers and education programs and
all of these these early ecosystem
necessities were able to build on top of
this and really push the adoption
forward so we have our full
documentation at and fear that I oh this
is a little bit of a screenshot of that
to kind of show you all of the methods
that we support and this is kind of the
state of now the one of the other big
things in our current services is
because we're so deeply ingrained inside
of the NGO ipfs client this has allowed
us to contribute to the open source
libraries and and and write our own open
source libraries to help accelerate the
client as well as the other developers
and operators in the ecosystem so to the
tools that we built our ipfs pump so
this is a command-line tool to be able
to copy data between ipfs nodes cluster
or storage so makes it extremely easy to
to shift data from node to node affirm
cluster to cluster or any other type of
storage solution that you have for your
your Gilad PFS client and then the other
tool that we built is our Go ipfs data
plugin and so I'll talk a little bit
more about this in in the next couple
slides but you know we we cut out of the
the inferior team comes from
heavy background of infrastructure sre
production grade DevOps kind of
engineering and and so you know
integrating with the latest and greatest
of operational tools is super important
to us and we realize that by by open
sourcing these connections especially
for data dog because it's such a
valuable tool for for operational
metrics that this would help operators
across the entire ecosystem and make
this technology even more accessible so
what it's so so a few few numbers
everyone likes numbers so we have over
forty million unique objects currently
supported on our service so to be to be
clear that pinned pinned data and
objects are a bit different because pin
data can be broken down into multiple
objects for for more efficient storage
so the you know the more exciting went
on here is we have over two terabytes of
data transfer every single day so
there's two over two terabytes of data
either being added or being accessed
through our service every single day and
this has been consistent for years now
and then we have what like I said part
of our you know our mission is to to be
contributing to these open source
libraries that build this ecosystem and
and in that mission we we had 25 plus
unique contributions and PRS to the the
version Oh dot five of Go ipfs and and a
lot of these were a lot of these were
around performance and bug fixing or
usability enhancements of domains and
data storage pinning and the DHT so
we're our our team is deeply passion
about in improving and offering this
service for everyone in the ecosystem
and and this is really been possible
because of our contract our
collaboration with the protocol labs
team they're engineering a group for
LIGO ipfs client they're their
communication with us has been
absolutely stellar they're always
extremely easy to get in touch with
we're iterating with them all the time
on on improvements in the client and and
metrics that were seeing from an
operational standpoint so this is this
has been a really critical partnership
for us to offer this service so a little
bit about our current architecture so we
utilize specialized services to to
create greater scaling and efficiency
and reliability and so this is this is
actually we've taken a very similar
architectural approach to ipfs that we
have for aetherium and so that's that's
basically zooming in on the client and
going what are the core systems here and
then splitting those out to be cloud
optimized so that we can not only
individually optimize and scale but we
can individually operate and and
monitor each of these unique systems so
that we can hone in on issues or
operational problems that we're seeing
in real time 24/7 and and so this is
this has led us to having shared
services across multiple nodes so we run
a kind of a number of mole of ago IPS
clients those have services that they
share that kind of increase the data
resiliency for our users and allow it to
scale really easily up and down and so
one of the really cool systems that we
have is it is a standalone system for
public
data on the DHT which makes it much much
more performance rich for getting data
to and from the peer-to-peer network so
this is that's been a really awesome
system that we're really excited to
release here soon so what's next so this
is this is the stuff that we're really
excited about
so at Denver I actually chose to talk
about IP FS and the etherium crowd
tolerated that so I I talked about that
we were we were in the process of
working on IP FS premium product and so
name pending this is the the most
immediate thing that's coming from in
fury is IP FS plus so this is a premium
version of our of our current IP FS
service with with a much greater
expanded API and gateway functionality
to to not only augment the complete set
that is offered by the go ipfs client
but to to offer almost the CIM the
complete functionality that that a if
you were running your own client that
you would have so this is going to be
fully integrated inside of our inferior
dashboard so where you go right now to
set up your your API credentials and and
view stats and metrics and all the
latest news and features on aetherium
that's going to be 100% supported for
ipfs as well so you're gonna have a file
like you're gonna have a pin explorer so
you can see exactly what you have in the
service you're going to see metrics and
data on every single thing that you're
doing and and and a much more robust
documentation that is going to share a
lot with the protocol labs documentation
and then unique project settings for
ipfs so that you have the the specific
control and functionality on how your IP
FS API or gateways are able to be used
and so that can broaden the actual use
cases for for people using the service
as you can imagine this comes with a
huge architecture update releasing
things like the publishing service that
I talked about but a lot of other
changes to our architecture as well to
support this kind of enhanced API and
gateway functionality and so the other
thing that I want to mention is is you
know as our you know we frame IP FSS
storage but we really look at it as
broader than that
and and our goal is to to fully support
distributed applications and this really
means going beyond storage and as the
primary use case for IP FS and a lot of
these features are going to facilitate
that and and be the the foundation for
enhanced features as well that go that
go beyond storage so you can think some
of the developers that we've been
talking to and having back and forth
around their usage and what things they
mean what we're learning is that there's
some really amazing opportunities with
messaging there's some amazing
opportunities with domain registries
obviously and so we're really looking
into all of these to have to enhance our
full web 3 development suite utilizing
the massive potential of ipfs so I
couldn't I couldn't I couldn't present
today without saying something about
file coin we are actively in discussions
with the protocol labs team about how
all of the interesting ways that we can
utilize file coin inside of our
infrastructure we're exploring direct
ways to connect our current offering
with file coin rock we're exploring
fake file coin functionality that would
be separate from our ipfs functionality
and so this is all still very much in
progress but I wanted to mention it here
because it's it's super important to us
and and we're very excited and looking
forward to sharing more about that with
the community soon so that is kind of
that's a that's a brief looking to into
where we are and where we're going we
have a really awesome community at
community about in Furio
we've got developers in there every
single day asking questions talking
about ipfs talking about that aetherium
talking about how they're connecting
ipfs and aetherium so definitely go
there can contribute if you have
questions if you have specific features
that you're interested in or
functionality or or if you have a use
case that you're just like man it would
be so awesome if you could help me
support this just reach out to us were
we're we're super responsive
I personally am in the community all day
every day talking to people so
definitely reach out and thanked awesome
thank you so much for the amazing talk
Mike I'm very excited for for the stuff
you guys have in the works both on the
ipfs and fowling interfaces things so
does anyone have have questions for Mike
what's been the toughest challenge
serving ipfs data so I think so I invite
an eg here today to ask some to answer
some of the more complicated engineering
questions but I think I'll take a stab
at this at first and then eg hopin if
you have some some additional thoughts I
think the hardest thing has really just
been the the volume the amount of people
that that that we are serving
and kind of growing as the client was
growing as well has been as has
definitely been a challenge but but but
in a good way because
what what's been really awesome about
the ecosystem is that people are
extremely understanding that you know
we're offering a service for something
that's very new and and we're still
trying to to to figure out what what
what people need what what a real
scaling version of this service is that
can support you know hundreds of
thousands of the developers every single
day so I think that that is probably my
simple answer I don't know if eg you
have anything else to add to that oh
yeah yeah I can admit cool hey everybody
yeah one thing that's been interesting
is the the very yeast cases that people
have had for pinning ipfs data and you
know early on we didn't support
different things right so maybe we
expected people to be deploying static
sites so that all of a sudden somebody
was building like a chat server
implementation on top of it or all of a
sudden somebody was trying to build
distributed database on top of it and
the things that that pop up when you
realize that are our assumptions with
how people were going to be consuming
data from this API didn't really hold up
and then how you adjust to that and then
and then yeah just just the different
scaling issues that had come up when you
know some things that kind of stand the
other is because we didn't have
authentication on our API early on we
didn't always know who was using our API
and where this new traffic source was
coming from so I remember specifically
Wendy Teebs started sending us a bunch
of traffic and we're like why did all of
a sudden our data transfer just explode
right and so you know those are fun
problems to solve and then there was one
other one I disappoint yeah those are
the first couple they come to mind
that's awesome definitely definitely
it's a good sort of problem
like whoo we had some things we probably
would have fixed before before we hit
this 10x increase if we'd known about it
ahead of time so one of the exciting
challenges about working in distributed
distributed systems suddenly you get a
lot of traffic question it from about
DMCA's or other take down from my
recollection we've only gotten one or
two but EGU you're better yeah we have
only gotten a couple I'm surprised we
haven't gotten more my my wife works for
a studio in in deals with anti-piracy
and things like that and knowing the
types of things that the types of tools
that she has available to herself or you
know managing these types of
relationships with content publishers
and providers I think it's something
that we as a community can try to get
ahead of and provide those because it's
it's going to come as people start
posting more and more content to to this
network we can get ahead of it and have
those tools and it'll ultimately help
adoption and help these enterprises and
existing establishment communities
understand that this is great technology
and it's not something to be afraid that
we have the tools to help them still run
their businesses now their great
question what tooling would make your
lives easier better as infrastructure
providers if groups were to build build
tooling for you what would be on your
wish list I think you know like I said
in the talk you know we have such a
strong working relationship with the
protocol with your team with the
protocol labs team that you know but I
think our our engineers who are working
on these problems every single day or
it's extremely easy to kind of reach out
and be like hey we found this and it's
not working
and what do you think we should do and
honestly that that's the number one
support that we would love for that to
continue but I think like specific
feature wise I I don't have anything off
the top of my head I'd be interested in
if ya nothing that things could spawn
off the top of my head in terms of
tooling though I really feel has been
lacking definitely the developers
support from the core development team
has been really essential when you know
we run into issues with you know
performance on the DHT side or strange
behavior of nodes that we're seeing in
production just really having that
communication leave with what the core
development team has been really
valuable I'd have to think more about a
specific tool let's see if you have a
question a lot of usage in China we
definitely get usage I'm not sure I
don't have the stats in front of me in
terms of like what that volume would be
so I'm not sure maybe Mike D you have a
rough idea yeah we know we we turn up to
home too far and on on how we regional
and like demographic based analysis of
our users because we just it doesn't
usually help us drive good product
decisions where is kind of functionality
and talking to developers and seen about
the problems that they have is really
kind of driven what we think is
important from an analysis standpoint so
we do see we do see traffic from China
but I wouldn't be able to say what
percentage it is and so one other thing
I did want to say about the you know
what and it's not really it's not really
an engineering solution but I think you
know what we are seeing is as as
providers of kind of this web 3 tooling
is that the the number one things that
that
new people into the ecosystem is
education and and so really kind of you
know the more and more is the ecosystem
that we can work together to to provide
learning material on on how to use this
and why to use it an interesting use
cases for it that that is kind of where
we're we're shifting a ton of our focus
especially on the marketing side away
from kind of traditional marketing and
and and much more towards kind of top of
the funnel education really teaching
people that the power of these tools and
so a ecosystem why not even just you
know the development teams at protocol
labs but just as it as an entire
ecosystem I think it's going to be our
our responsibility at the forefront of
this to to really teach people the
breadth of these tools